content/notes/2020-04-09-doubts-in-a-crisis.md, before:

---
title: "Doubts during a crisis"
featured_image:
  src: images/crisis/bram-willemse-corona-crisis.jpeg
title_short: Crisis doubts
description: 'Should I cancel my new kitchen? Should I take any paid job that comes along? Should I move house? Is it fair that I receive welfare now? So many Corona questions.'
reading_time: 5 minutes
date: 2020-04-09T08:54:51+02:00
url: /crisis-doubts/
type: notes
parent:
  title: "Notes"
  url: "/notes"
  icon: "list"
---

When will this end? How badly will I get sick? And my friends & family? Should I cancel my new kitchen? And my yoga subscription? Should I take any paid job that comes along? Should I move house? Should I cancel the renovation? Is it fair that I receive welfare now? Should I sell my Airpods Pro?

I know the answer to that last one, and no I refuse to sell the house. But damn, it's all a lot to figure out.

## Living by the week
In week 1 I functionally panicked and radically cut my costs, and called in all available help to figure out my options.

I relaxed a bit in the second week and started to look for ways how to handle this. Like buying groceries in bulk (which I never really did as a spoiled Amsterdammer) and ordering more online.

After feeling like I needed to change everything for two weeks, in the third week I realised I am safe for now financially and I have some time left to figure it out.

Here in the Netherlands we're in the fourth week of this crisis now and I am gaining back trust in myself, I have actually invested a bit in my home office and feel ready to face it.

I am skilled, I am social and I am able to help people through times like this. I have a promising house and a great budget to make it beautiful.

I will have to generage income, sooner rather than later. And thoughout this spring and summer I will have to invest the rest of my energy in my house. It's a lot, but I will take it by the day and week.

Prepare for the worst, hope for the best. Keep going. ✊

Commit message:

Pagination / Added a functional pagination for articles and notes

content/notes/2020-04-09-doubts-in-a-crisis.md, after:

---
title: "Doubts during a crisis"
featured_image:
  src: images/crisis/bram-willemse-corona-crisis.jpeg
title_short: Crisis doubts
description: 'Should I cancel my new kitchen? Should I take any paid job that comes along? Should I move house? Is it fair that I receive welfare now? So many Corona questions.'
reading_time: 5 minutes
date: 2020-04-09T08:54:51+02:00
url: /crisis-doubts/
parent:
  title: "Notes"
  url: "/notes"
  icon: "list"
---

When will this end? How badly will I get sick? And my friends & family? Should I cancel my new kitchen? And my yoga subscription? Should I take any paid job that comes along? Should I move house? Should I cancel the renovation? Is it fair that I receive welfare now? Should I sell my Airpods Pro?

I know the answer to that last one, and no I refuse to sell the house. But damn, it's all a lot to figure out.

## Living by the week
In week 1 I functionally panicked and radically cut my costs, and called in all available help to figure out my options.

I relaxed a bit in the second week and started to look for ways how to handle this. Like buying groceries in bulk (which I never really did as a spoiled Amsterdammer) and ordering more online.

After feeling like I needed to change everything for two weeks, in the third week I realised I am safe for now financially and I have some time left to figure it out.

Here in the Netherlands we're in the fourth week of this crisis now and I am gaining back trust in myself, I have actually invested a bit in my home office and feel ready to face it.

## Now what?
I am skilled, I am social and I am able to help people through times like this. I have a promising house and a great budget to make it beautiful.

I will have to generate some income sooner rather than later. And thoughout this spring and summer I will have to invest the rest of my energy in my house. It's a lot, but I will take it by the day, week or month.

Prepare for the worst, hope for the best. Keep going. ✊
