site/content/_now.md, before:

---
title: Now
introduction: On this page you can keep tabs at where I'm at and what is keeping me busy right now.
date: 2020-03-18T08:30:03+01:00
description: What is Bram Willemse doing now?
url: /now/
featured_image:
  src: images/now/bram_willemse-amsterdam-houthavens.jpeg
parent:
  title: Bram
  url: "/"
  icon: home
---

## Where
- I live &amp; work in 📍 **Amsterdam, the Netherlands**.

## Work
- **I was supposed to start a new project** but due to the acute economic crisis it has been delayed and my in-between role is now understandingly uncertain.
- **I have changed my focus** on a team lead role and open up to any work where I can help people create digital solutions.

# Personal
- **I am building my home**. Since January 23rd I am the proud  owner of the apartment I had been renting the previous 3.5 years. I've moved to an apartment around the block, and right now I am doing all the demolition work myself, preparing it for a contractor to make it livable and beautiful.
- **I am cutting costs**. Since the Corona crisis is hitting me and I have no foreseeable income, I'm looking into cutting costs where I can and the options that governmental support for freelancers can offer.
- **I am a volunteer for Vluchtelingenwerk**. Since november I am helping them out as a 'Wijkvrijwilliger' [or 'neighbourhood volunteer']. It means every week or other week, I would hang out with a refugee buddy and help him find his way in Dutch daily life. Right now I am not visiting him in person, but trying to call weekly to see how he's doing.
- **I run**. I had a small injury, so I've started 2020 very calmly. I plan to run my first ultra marathon (later) this year, after failing this goal last year. You can follow my progress on [Strava](https://strava.com/athletes/bramwillemse "Follow my training progress on Strava").
- **I am reading** ['Permanent Record'](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45995328-de-meeste-mensen-deugen "Check out the book 'Permanent Record' on GoodReads") by Edward Snowden and (still) working on <a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34507927-how-to-take-smart-notes" title="Check out the book 'How to take smart notes' on GoodReads">'How to take smart notes'</a> by Sönke Ahrens.

## Want to know more?
- Follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/bramwillemse "Follow or contact me on Twitter"), [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/bramwillemse "Check out my profile and CV on LinkedIn"), [Strava](https://strava.com/athletes/bramwillemse "Follow my training progress on Strava"), [Flickr](https://flickr.com/bramwillemse "Explore my photos on Flickr") or [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/bramwillemse "See what I read on my GoodReads profile").
- Read about <a href="https://nownownow.com/about">now</a>, an initiative by Derek Sivers.

Commit message:

Now / Updated now page with a bit more personal stuff

site/content/_now.md, after:

---
title: Now
introduction: On this page you can keep tabs at where I'm at and what is keeping me busy right now.
date: 2020-03-18T08:30:03+01:00
description: What is Bram Willemse doing now?
url: /now/
featured_image:
  src: images/now/bram_willemse-amsterdam-houthavens.jpeg
parent:
  title: Bram
  url: "/"
  icon: home
---

## Where
- I live &amp; work in 📍 **Amsterdam, the Netherlands**.

## Work
- **I was supposed to start a new project** but due to the acute economic crisis it has been delayed and my in-between role is now understandingly uncertain.
- **I have changed my focus** on a team lead role and open up to any work where I can help people create digital solutions.

# Personal
- **I am building my home**. Since January 23rd I am the proud  owner of the apartment I had been renting the previous 3.5 years. I've moved to an apartment around the block, and right now I am doing all the demolition work myself, preparing it for a contractor to make it livable and beautiful.
- **I am cutting costs**. Since the Corona crisis is hitting me and I have no foreseeable income, I'm looking into cutting costs where I can and the options that governmental support for freelancers can offer.
- **I am a volunteer for Vluchtelingenwerk**. Since november I am helping them out as a 'Wijkvrijwilliger' [or 'neighbourhood volunteer']. It means every week or other week, I would hang out with a refugee buddy and help him find his way in Dutch daily life. Right now I am not visiting him in person, but trying to call weekly to see how he's doing.
- **I start every day** with a short yoga exercise and meditation. The yoga exercise consists of the [5 Tibetans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Tibetan_Rites "Read more about the Five Tibetan Rites on Wikipedia"), plus a few extra exercises from my physiotherapist. Following that I will do the daily meditation by Sam Harris in [the Waking Up app](https://share.wakingup.com/2abce0e26219 "Check out the Waking Up app"). Through this link I can give you 1 month of free access to the app. Please let me know if you make use of it.
- **I run**. I had a small injury, so I've started 2020 very calmly. Right now I'm focusing on form, with help from my physiotherapist. And I have to pick up strength training again soon too. I plan to run my first ultra marathon (later) this year, after failing this goal last year. You can follow my progress on [Strava](https://strava.com/athletes/bramwillemse "Follow my training progress on Strava").
- **I am reading** ['Permanent Record'](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45995328-de-meeste-mensen-deugen "Check out the book 'Permanent Record' on GoodReads") by Edward Snowden and (still) working on <a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34507927-how-to-take-smart-notes" title="Check out the book 'How to take smart notes' on GoodReads">'How to take smart notes'</a> by Sönke Ahrens.

## Want to know more?
- Follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/bramwillemse "Follow or contact me on Twitter"), [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/bramwillemse "Check out my profile and CV on LinkedIn"), [Strava](https://strava.com/athletes/bramwillemse "Follow my training progress on Strava"), [Flickr](https://flickr.com/bramwillemse "Explore my photos on Flickr") or [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/bramwillemse "See what I read on my GoodReads profile").
- Read about <a href="https://nownownow.com/about">now</a>, an initiative by Derek Sivers.
