site/content/articles/2019-12-05-note-meditation.md, before:

---
title: A note on meditation
title_short: Meditation
introduction: I do yoga and I run. Next to that I've experimented with multiple methods of meditation. Since discovering Sam Harris's 'Waking Up' guided meditations, I belief I have found an entrance to exploring and expanding my mind.
author: "Bram Willemse"
date: 2019-12-05T12:58:35+01:00
url: "note-on-meditation"
parent:
  title: "Articles"
  url: "/articles"
  icon: "list"
type: articles
---

When talking about my health and about stressing less in life and work, I can't not mention yoga &amp; meditation. In 2017 I picked up yoga again since moving to Amsterdam in 2013. This year I got back on my twice-a-week streak and I couldn't be happier about it. Properly punishing my body running, it really needs a regular, good stretch.

Yoga and running both contain meditative aspects, helping me become more conscious of my mind &amp; body and to find a flow and balance in life. So I guess it was only logical for me to dive into meditation itself.

My good friend [Stef](https://stef.co) pointed me at an app by Sam Harris, which really changed my meditation experience.

Sam Harris is a neuroscientist, philosopher and author. One might know him for his criticism on religion, Stef had already been listening to his podcast 'Making Sense' for a while. But he also wrote a book and created an app with a non-religious approach to meditation, both called 'Waking up'. Their own introduction is as follows:

> "There are hundreds of meditation apps on the market, and several do a fine job of teaching the basic principles of mindfulness. But most present the practice as though it were an ancient version of an executive stress ball—whereas it’s more like the Hubble Space Telescope.
>
> The purpose of meditation isn’t merely to reduce stress or to make you feel better in the moment—it’s to make fundamental discoveries in the laboratory of your own mind."

I found his guided meditations to be more down to earth than Headspace's popular guided meditations with Andy. The latter are super dreamy &amp; floaty and more important: they now feel very superficial to me. And only now I understand why I grew tired of Headspace.

Don't get me wrong. Headspace is a great app! But by combining his meditations with lessons and conversations, Harris takes a more technical and even scientific approach than I'm used to. There's so much more to learn!

By finding 'Waking up' I belief I have found a way (back) to daily meditation. This way I hope to explore and expand my mind and to unlock a bit more of it's potential.

It has had a big impact on my life. It brought me improved awareness (or mindfulness), in general I'm more calm and I feel like I'm getting a better focus on what is important to me and what is not.

## Links
- Try guided meditation with [Headspace](https://www.headspace.com/)
- Try guided meditation with [Waking Up](https://www.headspace.com/)
- Listen to Sam Harris's [Making Sense podcast](https://samharris.org/podcast)

Commit message:

Meditation note / added a bit more about my experience with other types of meditation

site/content/articles/2019-12-05-note-meditation.md, after:

---
title: A note on meditation
title_short: Meditation
introduction: I do yoga and I run. Next to that I've experimented with multiple methods of meditation. Since discovering Sam Harris's 'Waking Up' guided meditations, I belief I have found an entrance to exploring and expanding my mind.
author: "Bram Willemse"
date: 2019-12-05T12:58:35+01:00
url: "note-on-meditation"
parent:
  title: "Articles"
  url: "/articles"
  icon: "list"
type: articles
---

Meditation has made a positive impact in my life. It helps me to start my days from a state of calm and keep it throughout the days, weeks and months, whatever I do. It helps me explore the relation between my body and mind. And it's a way to keep tabs on what I think, how I feel and what I want to do with all that.

When talking about my health and about stressing less in life and work, I can't not mention yoga &amp; meditation. In 2017 I picked up yoga again since moving to Amsterdam in 2013. This year I got back on my twice-a-week streak and I couldn't be happier about it. Properly punishing my body running, it really needs a regular, good stretch.

Yoga and running both contain meditative aspects, helping me become more conscious of my mind &amp; body and to find a flow and balance in life. So I guess it was only logical for me to dive into meditation itself.

Since 2016 I tried multiple types of meditation. I got into it after my friend Pritam coupon code for Headspace, an very nice and popular app offering a wide range of guided meditations. I loved a series that had me meditate on 6 different audioscapes, specifically engineerd to bring one into certain mindscapes, which I did for half a year (which I was intended to). And in yoga there's a lot of (active) meditation, of course.

Another good friend, [Stef](https://stef.co), pointed me at an app by Sam Harris recently, which has really changed my meditation experience. Their own introduction is as follows:

> "There are hundreds of meditation apps on the market, and several do a fine job of teaching the basic principles of mindfulness. But most present the practice as though it were an ancient version of an executive stress ball—whereas it’s more like the Hubble Space Telescope.
>
> The purpose of meditation isn’t merely to reduce stress or to make you feel better in the moment—it’s to make fundamental discoveries in the laboratory of your own mind."

Sam Harris is a neuroscientist, philosopher and author. One might know him for his criticism on religion, Stef had already been listening to his podcast 'Making Sense' for a while. But he also wrote a book and created an app with a non-religious approach to meditation, both called 'Waking up'.

I find his guided meditations to be more down to earth than Andy's from Headspace. The latter are super dreamy &amp; floaty and more important: they now feel very superficial to me. And only now I understand why I grew tired of Headspace.

Don't get me wrong. Headspace is a great app! But by combining his meditations with lessons and conversations, Harris takes a more technical and even scientific approach than I'm used to. There's so much more to learn!

By finding 'Waking up' I belief I have found a way (back) to daily meditation. This way I hope to explore and expand my mind and to unlock a bit more of it's potential.

## Links
- Try guided meditation with [Headspace](https://www.headspace.com/)
- Try guided meditation with [Waking Up](https://www.headspace.com/)
- Listen to Sam Harris's [Making Sense podcast](https://samharris.org/podcast)
