site/content/articles/2020-02-05-2020-goals.md, before:

---
title: My 2020 goals and how I set them
title_short: 2020 goals
introduction: In this post I’ll share a bit about Vermeer’s life area approach, how I used it and what it brought me looking ahead to 2020.
date: 2019-12-18T11:29:03+01:00
description: 'Bram writes about how he used his 2019 reflection to set his 2020 goals.'
featured_image:
  src: images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-2020-look-ahead-bear-amsterdam-erasmuspark.jpeg
reading_time: 6 minutes
type: "articles"
parent:
  title: "Articles"
  url: "/articles"
  icon: "list"
type: articles
url: /2020-goals/
---

As you might have read I was quite satisfied reflecting on my 2019 goals. But even before I published that article, de.foundation’s Charles shared a list of life areas he tends to use for his yearly reflections. After some research, I unveiled that list to be part of a whole method, developed by a Dutch guy, called Alex Vermeer, and before I knew it I was totally caught up in mind mapping 15 life areas.

## Broadened reflection through life areas
In 2019 I had chosen three themes and added more concrete quarterly, monthly or weekly goals and actions. It worked for me, but reflecting and building upon it, was a bit hard.

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/alex-vermeer-8760-hours-cover-v2.jpg" alt="The cover image of Vermeer's 8760 hours">}}

In came Alex Vermeer with his ‘8760 Hours’. He calls it a method to plan your next year. Guess how much hours go into a year...

Exactly. 🤷‍♂️

I immediately liked Charles’s suggestion of reflecting on the life areas that are included in the 8760 Hours method. That is why I read the whole PDF and started following the reflection part.

In short, these are the steps Vermeer follows:

1. Do a general review of your year;
2. Do an in-depth review your year, by creating a mind map per life area;
3. Set general goals for the next year;
4. Plan your goals throughout the year.

## Don't plan too much, let it happen
I think setting goals per year works great. It creates a finishing line to strive for, the so called dot on the horizon to focus on. To me though there are way too many factors that will and should mess with my planning. Planning a project is nice, but I like to let my life happen.

In the end the only thing that really stuck with me were the life areas and how to use them to broaden reflecting on my own life. Be sure to take a look at his 8760 hours, who knows the whole planning part does suit you.

## I want to be more conscious of my life.
That’s what the life areas helped me with. Applying those 12-15 themes on your life and specifically last year is such a simple way to get a broad perspective. It pulled my head out of my comfort zone and made me look at all (or most) aspects of life. Let me give you a few examples.

### Zooming in on areas results in a bigger picture
It took me at least a day to work through all the life areas. But it took me places I would've gone. Like taking a look at my social life &amp; relationships, my values &amp; purpose or simply what I though was good fun!

On my own I would've mainly focussed on the parts I'm unsatisfied with and think I should improve upon, like work, reading, running, etc.

### A bad experience can be good
I had felt bad about a few experiences. But in hindsight I concluded I was happy to have gone through some conflicts and to realize I did not pay much attention to some people. I was proud of how I handled a specific conflict and happy to approach those people I might have neglected last year and ask them how they felt about it.

### Everything matters
It made me see the good and neutral things as much as the bad. While I mostly tend to focus on the bad and what I think needs improvement.

For example, at the end of the year I felt tired and done with work because of one project. Looking at themes like ‘Career & work’ and ‘Knowledge & education’ I realized I’m quite proud of how much I achieved, learned and put into practice.

Okay, enough talk. I'll show you the money!

## 2020 themes
Because of my broadened reflection, I I've set quite a diverse range of themes and goals. And there are more than I had in 2019.

I forced myself to come up with a holy 2020 trinity:

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-2020-goals-trinity-life.png" alt="A drawing of a purple yin-yang-ish circle labeld Heart & Mind, a blue triangle labeled Focus and a green rectangle labeled Body.">}}

1. Heart &amp; mind
2. Focus
3. Body

But I'd say this is more of a holy life trinity to me, than only for 2020. It might actually be quite a discovery. But I think my 2020 themes, extracted from my 2019 reflection, will tell you a bit more about my upcoming year.

1. Look ahead
2. Focus &amp; action
3. Work
4. My mind
5. Healthy running
6. Social life &amp; relationships
7. Diet

You want examples? Read on.

## 2020 goals

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-2020-goals-themes-goals.png" alt="Written notes of my themes and goals. You can read them below.">}}

### 1. Look ahead
I will build my home, dabble my feet in investing small amounts of my money in green &amp; tech and I will create a 10+ year vision for what I want to achieve in my working career.

### 2. Focus & action
I will reduce clutter, delay less and take quicker action. I will explore ways to find deep work and try and find more value in the jobs I take on.

### 3. Work
I will spread my ideas, share my experience, pay more attention to design, take more freedom in when and where I work and will find an office space for myself.

### 4. My mind
I will meditate, find guides and experiment.

### 5. Healthy running
I will build from my feet up, get ripped and run my first ultra marathon.

### 6. Social life & relationships
I will invest in my inner circle, explore my relationships to new people and ... some personal stuff [feel free to ask 😉].

### 7. Diet
I will develop a healthier diet, become a vegetarian and try plant based recipes.

## Okay, there is some planning
I created a rough timeline and plotted my themes and goals on it. Besides that I added those goals to my todo app Things and roughly planned them per quarter. It will prompt me at the end of every quarter to evaluate them.

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-2020-goals-planning.png" alt="A matrix of time on the y-axis versus themes on the x-axis, with my goals plotted on them. ">}}

So that's it! At last (it's February already...) I finished this post and gave you insight into my approach of the next year. I'm happy with what I learned and I'm curious where I'll stand next winter. I'll be happy to share it with you!

## One more thing
At the start of the year a random longing to draw a wolf popped up and I immediately decided to make it a weekly habit. To improve my drawing skills and to explore my fascination with wolves and wolfy dogs. 🐺

I'm planning to create a space on this website to show all of them off. So stay tuned!

Here's a cute wolf pup to start with. Okbye!

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-wolf-puppy.jpeg" alt="A drawing I made of a super cute, big eyed wolf pup hiding in the bushes.">}}

## Related links

- Get to know [Alex Vermeer's 8760 Hours method](https://alexvermeer.com/8760hours/ "Read about 8760 hours and how to get the most out of next year") of reflection and planning your years.
- Check out [Things](https://culturedcode.com/things/ "Read about todo app Things, for iOS, iPadOS and macOS"), my favourite todo app in the Apple-verse!

## Continue reading

- Read [my reflection on 2019](/reflecting-2019-goals)
- Read [my note on meditation](/note-on-meditation)

Commit message:

Article: 2020 goals / Add a question at the end to challange reader to interact

site/content/articles/2020-02-05-2020-goals.md, after:

---
title: My 2020 goals and how I set them
title_short: 2020 goals
introduction: In this post I’ll share a bit about Vermeer’s life area approach, how I used it and what it brought me looking ahead to 2020.
date: 2019-12-18T11:29:03+01:00
description: 'Bram writes about how he used his 2019 reflection to set his 2020 goals.'
featured_image:
  src: images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-2020-look-ahead-bear-amsterdam-erasmuspark.jpeg
reading_time: 6 minutes
type: "articles"
parent:
  title: "Articles"
  url: "/articles"
  icon: "list"
type: articles
url: /2020-goals/
---

As you might have read I was quite satisfied reflecting on my 2019 goals. But even before I published that article, de.foundation’s Charles shared a list of life areas he tends to use for his yearly reflections. After some research, I unveiled that list to be part of a whole method, developed by a Dutch guy, called Alex Vermeer, and before I knew it I was totally caught up in mind mapping 15 life areas.

## Broadened reflection through life areas
In 2019 I had chosen three themes and added more concrete quarterly, monthly or weekly goals and actions. It worked for me, but reflecting and building upon it, was a bit hard.

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/alex-vermeer-8760-hours-cover-v2.jpg" alt="The cover image of Vermeer's 8760 hours">}}

In came Alex Vermeer with his ‘8760 Hours’. He calls it a method to plan your next year. Guess how much hours go into a year...

Exactly. 🤷‍♂️

I immediately liked Charles’s suggestion of reflecting on the life areas that are included in the 8760 Hours method. That is why I read the whole PDF and started following the reflection part.

In short, these are the steps Vermeer follows:

1. Do a general review of your year;
2. Do an in-depth review your year, by creating a mind map per life area;
3. Set general goals for the next year;
4. Plan your goals throughout the year.

## Don't plan too much, let it happen
I think setting goals per year works great. It creates a finishing line to strive for, the so called dot on the horizon to focus on. To me though there are way too many factors that will and should mess with my planning. Planning a project is nice, but I like to let my life happen.

In the end the only thing that really stuck with me were the life areas and how to use them to broaden reflecting on my own life. Be sure to take a look at his 8760 hours, who knows the whole planning part does suit you.

## I want to be more conscious of my life.
That’s what the life areas helped me with. Applying those 12-15 themes on your life and specifically last year is such a simple way to get a broad perspective. It pulled my head out of my comfort zone and made me look at all (or most) aspects of life. Let me give you a few examples.

### Zooming in on areas results in a bigger picture
It took me at least a day to work through all the life areas. But it took me places I would've gone. Like taking a look at my social life &amp; relationships, my values &amp; purpose or simply what I though was good fun!

On my own I would've mainly focussed on the parts I'm unsatisfied with and think I should improve upon, like work, reading, running, etc.

### A bad experience can be good
I had felt bad about a few experiences. But in hindsight I concluded I was happy to have gone through some conflicts and to realize I did not pay much attention to some people. I was proud of how I handled a specific conflict and happy to approach those people I might have neglected last year and ask them how they felt about it.

### Everything matters
It made me see the good and neutral things as much as the bad. While I mostly tend to focus on the bad and what I think needs improvement.

For example, at the end of the year I felt tired and done with work because of one project. Looking at themes like ‘Career & work’ and ‘Knowledge & education’ I realized I’m quite proud of how much I achieved, learned and put into practice.

Okay, enough talk. I'll show you the money!

## 2020 themes
Because of my broadened reflection, I I've set quite a diverse range of themes and goals. And there are more than I had in 2019.

I forced myself to come up with a holy 2020 trinity:

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-2020-goals-trinity-life.png" alt="A drawing of a purple yin-yang-ish circle labeld Heart & Mind, a blue triangle labeled Focus and a green rectangle labeled Body.">}}

1. Heart &amp; mind
2. Focus
3. Body

But I'd say this is more of a holy life trinity to me, than only for 2020. It might actually be quite a discovery. But I think my 2020 themes, extracted from my 2019 reflection, will tell you a bit more about my upcoming year.

1. Look ahead
2. Focus &amp; action
3. Work
4. My mind
5. Healthy running
6. Social life &amp; relationships
7. Diet

You want examples? Read on.

## 2020 goals

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-2020-goals-themes-goals.png" alt="Written notes of my themes and goals. You can read them below.">}}

### 1. Look ahead
I will build my home, dabble my feet in investing small amounts of my money in green &amp; tech and I will create a 10+ year vision for what I want to achieve in my working career.

### 2. Focus & action
I will reduce clutter, delay less and take quicker action. I will explore ways to find deep work and try and find more value in the jobs I take on.

### 3. Work
I will spread my ideas, share my experience, pay more attention to design, take more freedom in when and where I work and will find an office space for myself.

### 4. My mind
I will meditate, find guides and experiment.

### 5. Healthy running
I will build from my feet up, get ripped and run my first ultra marathon.

### 6. Social life & relationships
I will invest in my inner circle, explore my relationships to new people and ... some personal stuff [feel free to ask 😉].

### 7. Diet
I will develop a healthier diet, become a vegetarian and try plant based recipes.

## Okay, there is some planning
I created a rough timeline and plotted my themes and goals on it. Besides that I added those goals to my todo app Things and roughly planned them per quarter. It will prompt me at the end of every quarter to evaluate them.

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-2020-goals-planning.png" alt="A matrix of time on the y-axis versus themes on the x-axis, with my goals plotted on them. ">}}

So that's it! At last (it's February already...) I finished this post and gave you insight into my approach of the next year. I'm happy with what I learned and I'm curious where I'll stand next winter. I'll be happy to share it with you!

What do you think about these yearly goals? I'm curious. Do let me know! Look at the bottom of the page to see how you can most easily reach me.

Cheers!
Bram

## One more thing
At the start of the year a random longing to draw a wolf popped up and I immediately decided to make it a weekly habit. To improve my drawing skills and to explore my fascination with wolves and wolfy dogs. 🐺

I'm planning to create a space on this website to show all of them off. So stay tuned!

Here's a cute wolf pup to start with. Okbye!

{{<figure src="images/2020-goals/bram-willemse-wolf-puppy.jpeg" alt="A drawing I made of a super cute, big eyed wolf pup hiding in the bushes.">}}

## Related links

- Get to know [Alex Vermeer's 8760 Hours method](https://alexvermeer.com/8760hours/ "Read about 8760 hours and how to get the most out of next year") of reflection and planning your years.
- Check out [Things](https://culturedcode.com/things/ "Read about todo app Things, for iOS, iPadOS and macOS"), my favourite todo app in the Apple-verse!

## Continue reading

- Read [my reflection on 2019](/reflecting-2019-goals)
- Read [my note on meditation](/note-on-meditation)
